---
layout: post
title:  "Moving Forward"
date:   2017-9-21 17:59:38 -0500
categories: music
excerpt: Listening is a learning experience
---

**Daily Sketches**

After completing about 20 daily sketches of music, I have learned a lot about my own habits, faults, and practices when it comes to creating music. Looking back over the last month, I am proud of some of the effects and sounds I was able to produce, but all in all because my projects were all only around 1 hour of effort each, they tend to lack depth.

**The Next Step**

I intend to focus more on close listening exercises, music theory, and production training over the coming month so that I can extend my vocabulary. Iterating on a daily basis can be a good way to practice what I know, but I feel as if I am working with a limited set of tools and knowledge which is pushing me to learn newer, better practices. I want to blog more regularly about my experiences with music, and my current listening and training resources.

I want to still frame what I do on a daily basis into an hour or so, because I think that it works for me. There's usually not a good excuse for not being able to find a single hour to better myself.

**Future Daily Sketches**

In the future, I want to come back to Daily Sketches for another month and be able to compare my work with my previous sketches to see if I have improved. I think that then I will be able to quantify how active listening, theory, and production training have improved my ability to extract music from my head and 'get it onto the canvas'.
